README.md, before:

# Numd
A simple @nogc matrix math library for the
[D Programming language](https://dlang.org).

## Intro
Numd is currently just a matrix math library intended to support
[EbbCFD](https://github.com/Rob-Rau/EbbCFD). It can perform basic
matrix math operations in an intuitive API. It is not particularly
fast or efficient but it does get the job done. More work on
performance is intended (quite possible by utilizing
[mir](https://github.com/libmir/mir))

## Usage
One of the primary goals of Numd's matrix math library was ease of
use. If one is familliar with blas and lapack, the matrix routines
are very cumbersom to use. On the flip side, a package like Matlab
has very intuitive matrix math support. I aimed for the later when
designing this library.

I also wanted to use D's type system to its fullest when performing
matrix operations. This means emmiting compile errors when operating
on incompatible matricies. The effect of this is that the matrix
struct is a template that takes in its layout at compile time. This
does have limitations, but is acceptable in many cases.

Further, I wanted to be able to use this library in a @nogc context.
For small matricies, the data arrays is allocated on the stack. This
gives a nice memory layout when there is an array of matricies or
vectors. For larger matricies, the array is heap allocated using
```std.experimental.allocator.mallocator``` and reference counted as
the structure is passed around.

Some basic usage:
```D
auto m1 = Matrix!(3, 2)(1, 2,
                        3, 4,
                        5, 6);

auto m2 = Matrix!(2, 2)(7, 8,
                        9, 10);
auto m3 = m1*m2;
writeln(m3);
/+
[  25  28 ]
[  57  64 ]
[  89 100 ]
+/
```

## Future
Originally Numd was to be a complete numerical methods library.
This original vision has not been lost but in order to reduce
dependancies that made it somewhat difficult to get running on
a few clusters, it has been stripped down to only include the
matrix math library for now.

The plan going forward is to move things from EbbCFD into Numd
when they reach a stable level with an interface that I am happy
with. The first things that will likely be brought over are the
time integrators that EbbCFD uses. They currently have a specific
interface to EbbCFD but this should be changing soon.

Commit message:

Removed dynamic data array for matricies larger that 512bytes
- Removed the dynamic data array and reference counting logic from the
  Matrix struct. Semantically, I don't think the matrix class should hide
  that it is doing reference counting, and behave Semantically different
  when of a larger size. To make this explicit I've added the RMatrix
  and RVector aliases to use explicit reference counting using phoboss'
  RefCounted structure. This does behave semantically different but it
  is explicit in the type now.

- Added @nogc to all unit tests to ensure there is no regression.
- Duplicated all unittests for RMatrix and RVector, removed the opAssign
  test as RefCounted has its own opAssign, making these types semantically
  different.

- Updated README to reflect above changes.

README.md, after:

# Numd
A simple @nogc matrix math library for the
[D Programming language](https://dlang.org).

## Intro
Numd is currently just a matrix math library intended to support
[EbbCFD](https://github.com/Rob-Rau/EbbCFD). It can perform basic
matrix math operations in an intuitive API. It is not particularly
fast or efficient but it does get the job done. More work on
performance is intended (quite possibly by utilizing
[mir](https://github.com/libmir/mir))

## Usage
One of the primary goals of Numd's matrix math library was ease of
use. If one is familliar with blas and lapack, the matrix routines
are very cumbersom to use. On the flip side, a package like Matlab
has very intuitive matrix math support. I aimed for the later when
designing this library.

I also wanted to use D's type system to its fullest when performing
matrix operations. This means emmiting compile errors when operating
on incompatible matricies, not allowing certain functions to be called
on matricies that cannot support them (e.g. inverse on non-square
matricies, dot on non-vectors, and cross on non length 3 vectors).
The effect of this is that the matrix struct is a template that takes
in its layout at compile time. This does have limitations, but is
acceptable in many cases.

Further, I wanted to be able to use this library in a @nogc context.
All matrix operations are @nogc and the matrix object uses a statically
allocated array for its underlying data. For a heap allocated matrix
the aliases ```RMatrix``` and ```RVector``` provide easy heap matricies
that use **ALMOST** the same semantics. However, because the
```RefCounted``` wrapper has an ```opAssign```, when you assign one
matrix to another, it only assigns a reference and does not copy the
underlying data.

Some basic usage:
```D
auto m1 = Matrix!(3, 2)(1, 2,
                        3, 4,
                        5, 6);

auto m2 = Matrix!(2, 2)(7, 8,
                        9, 10);
auto m3 = m1 * m2;
writeln(m3);
/+
[  25  28 ]
[  57  64 ]
[  89 100 ]
+/
```

## Future
Originally Numd was to be a complete numerical methods library.
This original vision has not been lost but in order to reduce
dependancies that made it somewhat difficult to get running on
a few clusters, it has been stripped down to only include the
matrix math library for now.

The plan going forward is to move things from EbbCFD into Numd
when they reach a stable level with an interface that I am happy
with. The first things that will likely be brought over are the
time integrators that EbbCFD uses. They currently have a specific
interface to EbbCFD but this should be changing soon.
